Incorporate VDAF configuration into InputShareAad (#722)
ietf-wg-ppm/draft-ietf-ppm-dap: draft-ietf-ppm-dap.md

* PrepShare
* PrepMessage

> Additionally, to prevent cross-VDAF confusion attacks, in which an input
> intended for a particular VDAF configuration is evaluated under another VDAF

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, to prevent cross-VDAF confusion attacks, in which a message
intended for a particular VDAF configuration is evaluated under another VDAF
```

* `server_role` is the `Role` of the recipient (`0x02` for the Leader and `0x03`
   for the Helper).
* `plaintext_input_share` is the Aggregator's `PlaintextInputShare`.
* `input_share_aad` is an encoded `InputShareAad`, defined below.

The `SealBase()` function is as specified in {{!HPKE, Section 6.1}} for the
ciphersuite indicated by the Aggregator's HPKE configuration.

~~~ tls-presentation
uint32 VdafIdentifier;

struct {
  TaskID task_id;
  ReportMetadata report_metadata;
  opaque public_share<0..2^32-1>;

>   VdafIdentifier vdaf_identifier;

Author: I went back and forth on whether we need `vdaf_identifier`. `InputShareAad` never gets transmitted or decoded, it's only constructed by clients to encrypt messages and then constructed by aggregators to decrypt them. So you don't need an enum discriminant to tell you how to decode `vdaf_configuration`. However, it's possible that the configurations for two different VDAF types could have the same encoding, so I believe we need the VDAF codepoint to reliably distinguish them.

  impacts the security of DAP with respect to the threat model in
  {{sec-considerations}}.

* When a document defines a new VDAF ({{!VDAF, Section 5}}), it must specify an
  encoding of that VDAF's configuration like the ones in
  {{vdaf-configuration-encodings}}.

--- back

# VDAF Configuration Encodings

This section provides encodings of configuration of the Prio3 family of VDAFs.
These are included in `InputShareAad` structures ({{upload-request}}) to prevent

> cross-VDAF confusion attacks.

Author: Yeah, my thinking is that if we do this in DAP, we'd delete these from taskprov and have it refer to the DAP appendix.

## Prio3Count

There are no parameters for this VDAF so `Empty` ({{basic-definitions}}) is
used.

## Prio3Sum

~~~ tls-presentation
struct {
    uint32 max_measurement; /* largest summand */
} Prio3SumConfig;
~~~

## Prio3SumVec

~~~ tls-presentation
struct {
    uint32 length;       /* length of the vector */
    uint8 bits;          /* bit length of each summand */
    uint32 chunk_length; /* size of each proof chunk */
} Prio3SumVecConfig;
~~~

## Prio3Histogram

~~~ tls-presentation
struct {
    uint32 length;       /* number of buckets */
    uint32 chunk_length; /* size of each proof chunk */
} Prio3HistogramConfig;
~~~

## Prio3MultihotCountVec

~~~ tls-presentation
struct {
    uint32 length;       /* length of the vector */
    uint32 chunk_length; /* size of each proof chunk */
    uint32 max_weight;   /* largest vector weight /
} Prio3MultihotCountVecConfig;

> ~~~

Author: I didn't include Poplar1 here because DAP isn't capable of running Poplar1 or any VDAF that collects batches multiple times.

Reviewer: Poplar1 can be used in "attributed-based metrics" mode, providing a limited version of Mastic's capability. I think it should be included.
